# Image-Classifier-Model
Object Detection in general means machines method to locate and label objects. These techniques can be used for both static and dynamic data. These techniques are already in wide use in many industries such as smart phones, sports, smart vehicles. Various methods have been adopted to get the optimal way for recognizing the objects in an image and many of these techniques have a major problem in space management and communication between multiple different platforms. Open source libraries such as OpenCV’s DNN library and tensorflow Object detection API offer easy-to-use, open source frameworks where pre trained models for object detection reaches high accuracy. However the main aim being the space management and versatility of the model among different platforms is the main focus of study here. We have developed an object recognition model using convolutional neural networks that is trained and tested with the CIFAR-10 dataset. The model is based on linear regression as we are using the same to train and test our model. Also since the training process is complex, time consuming and space consuming, we will store our training data in a .h5 file. Then we can use the same file for the same model or a different model using the same training data as a part of multiple models used in the detector. In this project TensorFlow and Keras API are used to facilitate the process of building, training and testing the model. Tensor flow is a high level library for numerical computation. It helps us to build machine learning model, however we have to build each layer within our network and manually build training and testing loops and optimizers. It is Flexible and easy to use but keras acts as an API that works on TensorFlow to make all the attributes of a model easily accessible. Keras basically works on top of the other machine learning frameworks. While building our model we will see the difference in accuracy that we will get when we are using different activation functions (such as Tanh, Relu, LeakyRelu, Softmax ) for the same model. The Object recognizer that we are going to built can identify objects from ten different domains that are mentioned in the CIFAR-10 dataset. This dataset contains 60,000 32x32 images, 6000 images in each class. There are 50,000 training images and 10,000 testing images in random order.This model can act as a base for a more complex object recognizer, It can be used as a part of a larger model consisting a large no of models. This model can be used for quick load applications and mobile applications as well. The programming for the following project has been done using python ver.3.5.1. Also the other in built libraries have been used.
